this the full cv R A K H S H I N D A   J A B E E N
E n g l i s h T e a c h e r (CELTA CERTIFIED)
Du-Al-Hulaifah District, Madinah Almunawara, Saudi Arabia
Mobile: 00966559201358
Email: rwahla7@gmail.com
Key Skills: Good Communicator, Positive attitude, Passionate, Planning and organizational
skills, Lesson planning, Curriculum Design, Creativity in teaching methodology, Ability to
work in pressure, Flexible approach to work, Classroom management, Proficient in
technology usage, Collaboration
Career History
King Khalid University, College of Languages and Translation, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
Lecturer in English (2007- 2023)
Duties and Responsibilities
Teaching EFL to Arab students of different levels, including, Blended Teaching as well as
facilitated
Teaching- incorporating online testing and evaluation methods.
•Organizing, planning, and teaching a variety of age groups and classes.
•Getting exam papers, exercises, and examinations ready and set.
• Grading and offering pertinent comments on written and spoken assignments...  • •
•Creating original content, such as audio and video resources, through planning, scripting,
and production.
• Participating in and attending training sessions.
• Teaching pupils how to analyze literature.
• Giving reading assignments for novels, poetry, drama, and other genres, both modern
and classical.
• Educating pupils on the composition and structure of the English language
• Using appropriate spelling, grammar, and sentence construction.
• imparting knowledge of various literary eras and styles.
• Establishing a supportive learning environment for pupils.
• Working on projects intended to improve lectures.
• Taking part in continuing education programs.
• Reading and keeping up with the latest issues in education.
• Creating rewards to encourage students to stay in class.
•Assisting program coordinators in making sure that goals are fulfilled.
• Compiling, at the end of the semester, the mandatory course reports for each course's
Quality Unit.
• Using disciplinary measures to manage and assess the behaviors and performances of
students.
• Making use of Blackboard, an interactive online resource for guided learning.
• Using Blackboard to prepare assignments and assessments that are due online.
• Putting connections to pertinent YouTube videos and slides on Blackboard.
• Turning on the Blackboard Discussion Forum to track students' progress in particular
courses.
• Responding to student feedback and assistance via Blackboard mail.
• Overseeing the grading center on Blackboard to provide online results.
• Using SPSS to analyze the final results and sending the department a report.
• Delivering specialized, all-inclusive English classes to KKU students studying science,
economics, business administration, and home economics at several campuses.
Fatima Jinnah Degree College for Women, Faisalabad, Pakistan
English Lecturer, Head of the English Department (2000-2007)
Duties and Responsibilities
 Taught ESL to college students of various levels
 Taught literature and language to graduate students.
 Developed Exam questions for both mid semester and final exam; providing efficient
 assessment on student’s performances.
 Involved in mentoring students for academic achievements and in extra- curricular
activities.
 Provided timely, thorough feedback to students.
 Incorporated available technology into course format and assignments.
 Organized and got involved in cultural and social activities.
 Worked as the Head of the Department and assisted the principal regarding staff
affairs, leave applications, exam control and other administrative affairs.
Publications:
 Published a paper on “Nature in the Hands of Wordsworth” in International
Journal of Linguistics, Literature and Translation (IJLLT).
http://www.ijllt.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/12-NEW.pdf
 Published a paper on “Humor – an Effective Teaching Tool in Language
Learning” in, Language in India.
http://www.languageinindia.com/june2019/sufiahumoreffectiveteachingtoolefllearningfinal1.
pdf
 Published a paper on: Multicultural Diverse Classroom; Addressing the
Instructional Challenges and Reflections, from a Teacher’s Perspective. Arab World
English Journal, Special Issue: The Dynamics of EFL in Saudi Arabia. 127-136
DOI: https://dx.doi.org/10.24093/awej/efl1.10
 Published a paper on: Infringing Behaviors of Students inside a University
Classroom- a Research Study from the Teachers’ Vantage Point
http://ejournal.staimnglawak.ac.id/index.php/educatio/article/view/288/168
DOI: https://doi.org/10.29138/educatio.v5i2.288
 Published a paper on: Challenges and Predicaments in Teaching “English for
Science” in an ESP Classroom: A Research Study to Pinpoint Problems and Solutions
in International Journal of English Language Teaching Vol.12, No.1, pp.80-89, 2024.
DOI:  https://doi.org/10.37745/ijelt.13/vol12n18089
 Published a paper on: Conceptualizing Creativity: Leading to an Efficacious
EFL Teaching in International Journal of Education, Learning and Development Vol.
12, No.8, pp.41-57, 2024.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.37745/ijeld.2013/vol12n84157
Book Proceedings: Published a paper in book proceedings of 4 th International
European Conference on Interdisciplinary Scientific Research, Warsaw, Poland, held
on 8-9 August 2021.The topic of the paper is: “P.B Shelley’s Romanticism: A World of Sheer
Ecstasy”.
Book Proceedings: Jabeen, R., & Sarifa, N. (2022). Challenges Faced by an EFL
Instructor inside a University Classroom-An observational study.In Assoc. Prof. Dr. Elif
Tokdemir Demirel, Agit Ferhat Özel& Gamze Turun (Eds.).1st International Congress of
Innovation through Academic Writing, Kırıkkale University Turkiye, IKSAD Publications.
ISBN: 978-625-8254-06-8(83-86).
Presentations:
1-Presented a paper in LRC (King Khalid University)
Sarifa, N. & Jabeen, R. (March 2022) Analyzing the Efficacy of the Teaching Approaches
Implemented by the Literature Teachers for EFL Students: Undergraduate Learners’
Perspective (webinar). organized by the Language Research Center, Faculty of Languages
and Translation, King Khalid University, Abha, Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia.
2-Presented a paper in 4 th International European Conference on Interdisciplinary
Scientific Research, Warsaw, Poland, held on 8-9 August 2021.The topic of the paper is:
“P.B Shelley’s Romanticism: A World of Sheer Ecstasy”.
3-Presented a research paper in Second International Virtual TESOL Conference, with the
theme: “Second Language Acquisition Research Advances”. The topic of the presentation is:
Conceptualizing Creativity, an Efficacious tool in EFL Teaching.
4-Presented a paper on “Motivation in English Language Teaching”, under KSAALT-
TESOL Abha Chapter.
5-Presented a paper on 13 th Research Day of King Khalid University, titled: “Literature in
EFL Classroom”.
Jabeen, R. (April 4, 2018). Literature in EFL Classroom- An Analytical Study.13th Research
Day organized by the Language Research Center, Faculty of Languages and Translation,King
Khalid University, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
6-Presented a paper in LRC (Language Research Center) King Khalid University, Abha
KSA, on the Topic: Infringing Behaviors of Students in an EFL Classroom. (2021)
7-Presented a paper in First International Congress of Innovation Through Academic
Writing INTAW 2022, organized by Kirikkale University Turkiye, on the topic: Challenges
Faced by an Instructor inside a University Classroom- An observational Study.
Memberships
Certified member of European Centre for Research Training and
Development UK- (ECRTD-UK 2024)
Ex Member of MEC: Ex. Member of Measurement and Evaluation Center, Department of
Languages and Translation (2018)
Responsibilities:
Assisted and facilitated training workshops under the supervision of Campus coordinator
of MEC
Training of SPSS Result analysis to EFL staff members
Workshops, Seminars and Meetings:
Participated in the International Webinar Series Lecture - III, delivered by Prof. Sadaf
Munshi, Chair, Dept. of Linguistics, College of Information, and University of North Texas,
USA and organised by the UGC-Human Resource Development Centre, University of
Kashmir, on July 20, 2020.
Participated in 6 Day Faculty Development Programme on “Impactful Online
Teaching and Student Engagement” by organized by Uttarakhand Science Education
and Research Centre, Department of Information & Science Technology, Govt. of
Uttarakhand in collaboration with CCE, UPES, Dehradun & Vibha, Vigyan Bharti, on
August 4, 2020 to August 9, 2020
Attended a webinar by Cambridge Assessment English (Cambridge University Press) on
Cambridge Digital Experience 2022- Transforming teaching and learning using
Cambridge One and Blackboard. (23 Feb, 2022)
Attended live sessions of KSAALT TESOL (Abha Chapter Saudi Arabia) on a variety of
topics, especially related with EFL.
Courses Completed
Attended a Cambridge Professional Learning and Development
training session on Academic Writing and Oracy on 16th Feb. 2020, at Abha
A training session on “Making English Language Literacy Accessible for students” by Dr.
Eli Ghazele on 30th Nov. 2019, at Abha.
Online courses completed, based on Blackboard usage Illuminate Live, Bb testing and
Blackboard ultra
E Learning Practitioner Course (2 week’s online course), by King Khalid University,
Saudi Arabia.
Completed a professional training on foundation courses (Unlock by Cambridge)
conducted by Claire Hattle on 13/01/2019 at King Khalid University, Abha. Saudi Arabia.
Degrees and Certificates
CELTA professional teaching certificate-2025
Masters in English Literature –with optional paper of ELT, (The University of Punjab,
Pakistan 2000)
Bachelors in Arts and Humanities (The University of Punjab, Pakistan1997)
Certificate of National Cadet Core Training (1995)
Computer skills
Proficient in SPSS (Data analysis software)
Proficient in Ms Office
Proficient in PowerPoint
Proficient in Ms Excel (spreadsheets, data analysis, data collection)
Proficient in Google slides, spreadsheets, and Google docs
Languages Known
 English (Advanced level)
 Arabic (Intermediate level)
 Urdu (Native Speaker)
References:
Dr. Najmus Sarifa
Assistant Professor of English
English Language Center,
College of Science
King Khalid University, Abha, Saudi Arabia
nshrufah@kku.edu.sa